1Now the sons of Issachar were, Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
2And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father's house, to wit, of Tola: they were valiant men of might in their generations; whose number was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six hundred.
3And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.
4And with them, by their generations, after the house of their fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, six and thirty thousand men: for they had many wives and sons.
5And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiant men of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies fourscore and seven thousand.
6The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.
7And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousand and thirty and four.
8And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher.
9And the number of them, after their genealogy by their generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valour, was twenty thousand and two hundred.
10The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar.
11All these the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers, mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred soldiers, fit to go out for war and battle.
12Shuppim also, and Huppim, the children of Ir, and Hushim, the sons of Aher.
13The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.
14The sons of Manasseh; Asriel, whom she bare: (but his concubine the Aramitess bare Machir the father of Gilead:
15And Machir took to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad had daughters.
16And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
17And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.
18And his sister Hammoleketh bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
19And the sons of Shemida were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
20And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,
21And Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath that were born in that land slew, because they came down to take away their cattle.
22And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him.
23And when he went in to his wife, she conceived, and bare a son, and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.
24(And his daughter was Sherah, who built Beth–horon the nether, and the upper, and Uzzen–sheerah.)
25And Rephah was his son, also Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,
26Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
27Non his son, Jehoshua his son.
28And their possessions and habitations were, Beth–el and the towns thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the towns thereof:
29And by the borders of the children of Manasseh, Beth–shean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns, Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.
30The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Ishuah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
31And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of Birzavith.
32And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
33And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the children of Japhlet.
34And the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
35And the sons of his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.
36The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
37Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
38And the sons of Jether; Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.
39And the sons of Ulla; Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.
40All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father's house, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And the number throughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war and to battle was twenty and six thousand men.