1So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
2Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God.
3Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.
4Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he.
5When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled.
6And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion.
7I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.
8But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.
9Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment.
10Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.
11Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say.
12Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words:
13Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man.
14Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches.
15They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking.
16When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;)
17I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion.
18For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.
19Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles.
20I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer.
21Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man.
22For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away.