1He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
2When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
3Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance.
4The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.
5A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.
6In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
7The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it.
8Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath.
9If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.
10The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.
11A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.
12If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.
13The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the Lord lighteneth both their eyes.
14The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.
15The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.
16When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall.
17Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.
18Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
19A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.
20Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
21He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length.
22An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
23A man's pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.
24Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not.
25The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe.
26Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the Lord.
27An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.