1A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
2A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.
3He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
4The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
5A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.
6Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
7There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.
8The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.
9The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
10Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.
11Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.
12Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.
13Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
14The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
15Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.
16Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly.
17A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.
18Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
19The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil.
20He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
21Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed.
22A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.
23Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment.
24He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
25The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.