1Now these were the sons of David, which were born unto him in Hebron; the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess:
2The third, Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur: the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith:
3The fifth, Shephatiah of Abital: the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife.
4These six were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned seven years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years.
5And these were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bath–shua the daughter of Ammiel:
6Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,
7And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
8And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
9These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.
10And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
11Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
12Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
13Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
14Amon his son, Josiah his son.
15And the sons of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
16And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
17And the sons of Jeconiah; Assir, Salathiel his son,
18Malchiram also, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
19And the sons of Pedaiah were, Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sons of Zerubbabel; Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister:
20And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab–hesed, five.
21And the sons of Hananiah; Pelatiah, and Jesaiah: the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah.
22And the sons of Shechaniah; Shemaiah: and the sons of Shemaiah; Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
23And the sons of Neariah; Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.
24And the sons of Elioenai were, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.