1Adam, Seth, Enosh,
2Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jared,
3Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
4Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
5The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
6And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
7And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
8The sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
9And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.
10And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth.
11And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
12And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (of whom came the Philistines,) and Caphtorim.
13And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth,
14The Jebusite also, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
15And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
16And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
17The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
18And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.
19And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name was Joktan.
20And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
21Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diklah,
22And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
23And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
24Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
25Eber, Peleg, Reu,
26Serug, Nahor, Terah,
27Abram; the same is Abraham.
28The sons of Abraham; Isaac, and Ishmael.
29These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
30Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
31Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
32Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan.
33And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.
34And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel.
35The sons of Esau; Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
36The sons of Eliphaz; Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
37The sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
38And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
39And the sons of Lotan; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan's sister.
40The sons of Shobal; Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah.
41The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
42The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran.
43Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel; Bela the son of Beor: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
44And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
45And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead.
46And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith.
47And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
48And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.
49And when Shaul was dead, Baal–hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
50And when Baal–hanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
51Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,
52Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,
53Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,
54Duke Magdiel, duke Iram. These are the dukes of Edom.