1Furthermore Elihu answered and said,
2Hear my words, O ye wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.
3For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.
4Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is good.
5For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment.
6Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without transgression.
7What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?
8Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men.
9For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.
10Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.
11For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.
12Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment.
13Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world?
14If he set his heart upon man, if he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath;
15All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust.
16If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words.
17Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just?
18Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?
19How much less to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands.
20In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand.
21For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.
22There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
23For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should enter into judgment with God.
24He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead.
25Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the night, so that they are destroyed.
26He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
27Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways:
28So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.
29When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a nation, or against a man only:
30That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared.
31Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more:
32That which I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.
33Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest.
34Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me.
35Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without wisdom.
36My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his answers for wicked men.
37For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against God.