1The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.
2For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged.
3A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.
4They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.
5Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the Lord understand all things.
6Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
7Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shameth his father.
8He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.
9He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.
10Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession.
11The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.
12When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.
13He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.
14Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.
15As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people.
16The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.
17A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.
18Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.
19He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.
20A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
21To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress.
22He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him.
23He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.
24Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.
25He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the Lord shall be made fat.
26He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.
27He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.
28When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.