1Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
2A good man obtaineth favour of the Lord: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
3A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
4A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
5The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
6The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
7The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
8A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
9He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
10A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
11He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.
12The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.
13The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.
14A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.
15The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.
16A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.
17He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.
18There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
19The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
20Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
21There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
22Lying lips are abomination to the Lord: but they that deal truly are his delight.
23A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
24The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.
25Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.
26The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.
27The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.
28In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death.