1Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom.
2A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.
3When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.
4The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook.
5It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment.
6A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes.
7A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.
8The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
9He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster.
10The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
11The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit.
12Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility.
13He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.
14The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?
15The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
16A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.
17He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
18The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.
19A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
20A man's belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.
21Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
22Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the Lord.
23The poor useth entreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.
24A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.