1So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before God.
2And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord.
3And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.
4And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of the Lord, and to record, and to thank and praise the Lord God of Israel:
5Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed–edom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a sound with cymbals;
6Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
7Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the Lord into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
8Give thanks unto the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people.
9Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous works.
10Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord.
11Seek the Lord and his strength, seek his face continually.
12Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;
13O ye seed of Israel his servant, ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.
14He is the Lord our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
15Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he commanded to a thousand generations;
16Even of the covenant which he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;
17And hath confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,
18Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;
19When ye were but few, even a few, and strangers in it.
20And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people;
21He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes,
22Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.
23Sing unto the Lord, all the earth; shew forth from day to day his salvation.
24Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works among all nations.
25For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised: he also is to be feared above all gods.
26For all the gods of the people are idols: but the Lord made the heavens.
27Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness are in his place.
28Give unto the Lord, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength.
29Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come before him: worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.
30Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable, that it be not moved.
31Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men say among the nations, The Lord reigneth.
32Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields rejoice, and all that is therein.
33Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of the Lord, because he cometh to judge the earth.
34O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever.
35And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks to thy holy name, and glory in thy praise.
36Blessed be the Lord God of Israel for ever and ever. And all the people said, Amen, and praised the Lord.
37So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the Lord Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required:
38And Obed–edom with their brethren, threescore and eight; Obed–edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be porters:
39And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of the Lord in the high place that was at Gibeon,
40To offer burnt offerings unto the Lord upon the altar of the burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to do according to all that is written in the law of the Lord, which he commanded Israel;
41And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the Lord, because his mercy endureth for ever;
42And with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make a sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were porters.
43And all the people departed every man to his house: and David returned to bless his house.