1Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
2And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
3Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.
4Moreover the sons of Obed–edom were, Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth,
5Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for God blessed him.
6Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.
7The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.
8All these of the sons of Obed–edom: they and their sons and their brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and two of Obed–edom.
9And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.
10Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him the chief;)
11Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.
12Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house of the Lord.
13And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate.
14And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward.
15To Obed–edom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.
16To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.
17Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.
18At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.
19These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore, and among the sons of Merari.
20And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.
21As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.
22The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were over the treasures of the house of the Lord.
23Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites:
24And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasures.
25And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.
26Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated.
27Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain the house of the Lord.
28And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith, and of his brethren.
29Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.
30And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the Lord, and in the service of the king.
31Among the Hebronites was Jeriah the chief, even among the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.
32And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.