1Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye.
2Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come.
3And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.
4And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me.
5Now I will come unto you, when I shall pass through Macedonia: for I do pass through Macedonia.
6And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go.
7For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit.
8But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
9For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.
10Now if Timothy come, see that he may be with you without fear: for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.
11Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come unto me: for I look for him with the brethren.
12As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time.
13Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.
14Let all your things be done with charity.
15I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,)
16That ye submit yourselves unto such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and laboureth.
17I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied.
18For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: therefore acknowledge ye them that are such.
19The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
20All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with an holy kiss.
21The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand.
22If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.
23The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
24My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.