1And when any will offer a grain offering unto the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
2And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests: and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the Lord:
3And the remnant of the grain offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the Lord made by fire.
4And if thou bring an oblation of a grain offering baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
5And if thy oblation be a grain offering baken in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
6Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a grain offering.
7And if thy oblation be a grain offering baken in the fryingpan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
8And thou shalt bring the grain offering that is made of these things unto the Lord: and when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar.
9And the priest shall take from the grain offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the Lord.
10And that which is left of the grain offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the Lord made by fire.
11No grain offering, which ye shall bring unto the Lord, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the Lord made by fire.
12As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto the Lord: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.
13And every oblation of thy grain offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy grain offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.
14And if thou offer a grain offering of thy firstfruits unto the Lord, thou shalt offer for the grain offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.
15And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a grain offering.
16And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto the Lord.