1A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
2The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
3The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
4A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.
5A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
6In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
7The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so.
8The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
9The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the Lord: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
10Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die.
11Hell and destruction are before the Lord: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?
12A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.
13A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
14The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.
15All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
16Better is little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble therewith.
17Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
18A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
19The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.
20A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
21Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.
22Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
23A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!
24The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.
25The Lord will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.
26The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord: but the words of the pure are pleasant words.
27He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.
28The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
29The Lord is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
30The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat.
31The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.
32He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.
33The fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.