1A false balance is abomination to the Lord: but a just weight is his delight.
2When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.
3The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
4Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
5The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
6The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.
7When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth.
8The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
9An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.
10When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
11By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
12He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
13A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
14Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
15He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure.
16A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.
17The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
18The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward.
19As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.
20They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the Lord: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.
21Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
22As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.
23The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
24There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.
25The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
26He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
27He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.
28He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.
29He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
30The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.
31Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.